readme.md, before:

#intro to html & css

List of starting and completed exercises for any beginners getting into html, css and simple javascript. These exercises are designed to be taught in small groups accompanied by an instructor for guidance and discussion.

The lesson numbers are in the seqeuntial order of difficulty and builds on the knowledge of previous lessons.

##suggested tools

1. plain text editor e.g. [Sublime Text](http://www.sublimetext.com/3)
1. browser e.g. [Chrome](https://www.google.com/intl/en/chrome/browser/) with [DevTools](https://developers.google.com/chrome-developer-tools/)

##lessons

1. **text** tags such as `h1`, `h2`, `h3`, `h4`, `h5`, `h6`, `p`, `code`, `blockquote`, `span`
1. text **formatting and lines** with tags `em`, `hr`, `br`, `strong`
1. **image** tag `img` with attributes `height`, `width`, `title`, `alt` with relative/absolute url
1. **hyperlink** tag `a` with attributes `href`, `name` with relative/absolute hyperlinks
1. **list** tag `ul`,`ol` and `li` with ordered/unordered and nested list
1. **table** tag `table` with `tr`, `td` and attributes such as `cellpadding`, `cellspacing`, `colspan`, `rowspan`, `border`
1. **form** tags `form` with `input`, `label`, `select`, `option`, `textarea` and attributes such as `name`, `type`, `value`
1. linking **css and js** code and files with `link`, `style`, `script`
1. **css text** properties such as `font-family`, `font-size`, `color`, `font-style`, `font-weight`, `text-align`, `background-color`, `line-height`, `word-spacing`, `letter-spacing` and `font` (shorthand)
1. **css hyperlinks** with properties such as `text-decoration` for tags and pseudo classes `:link`, `:visited`, `:hover` and `:active`
1. **css background** with properties such as `background-color`, `background-image`, `background-attachment`, `background-position`, `background-repeat` and shorthand `background`
1. **css border** with properties `border` (shorthand), `border-width`, `border-style`, `border-color`, `border-left`, `border-right`, etc
1. **css form** by styling `textarea:focus`, `input[type=text]`, etc
1. **css selectors** such as `* {}`, `E {}`, `E F {}`, `E > F {}`
1. **css for id & class**
1. **css box model**
1. **css page layout**
1. **css position** with absolute, fixed and relative
1. **semantic tags** such as `header`, `footer`, `article`
1. **audio**
1. **video**
1. **web font** using [Google web fonts](https://www.google.com/fonts)
1. **embed fonts** using simple css syntax
1. **embed fonts** using more font formats to support different browsers
1. **vendor prefixes** for IE, Opera, Chrome, Safari
1. **border radius** to vary the amount, position of the curvature
1. **text shadow** with single or multiple shadows to vary the color, depth and position
1. **box shadow** with single or multiple shadows to vary the color, depth and position
1. **text selection** to change the text color and/or background when selecting text
1. **gradients** for linear gradient with stops and radial gradient
1. **transform** for translate, scale, rotate, skew
1. **transition** with `webkit-transition-property`, `-webkit-transition-duration`, `-webkit-transition-timing-function`, `-webkit-transition-deplay`
1. **animation** with `@keyframes`, `-webkit-animation-name`, `-webkit-animation-duration`, `-webkit-animation-iteration-count`, `-webkit-animation-timing-function`, `-webkit-animation-delay`, `-webkit-animation-direction`
1. **css3 selectors** with `nth-child` and `nth-of-type`
1. **media queries** for responsive design
1. **html5 forms** with input type as email, url, number, tel as well as attributes like require, min, max
1. **css3 reflection** with `box-reflect` 
1. **simple jquery integration** with [FittextJS](http://fittextjs.com/)
1. **css sprite** to load only one image instead of many images

##suggested timing

- lesson 1 - 4 [4 hours]
- lesson 5 - 8 [4 hours]
- lesson 9 - 12 [4 hours]
- lesson 13 - 18 [4 hours]
- lesson 19 - 24 [4 hours]
- lesson 25 - 29 [4 hours]
- lesson 30 - 33 [4 hours]
- lesson 34 - 38 [4 hours]


##general resources

1. [W3C](http://www.w3.org/)
1. [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/)
1. [web platform](http://www.webplatform.org/)

##credits

- image: [Internet PNG](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Internet_map_1024_-_transparent.png) from Wikimedia Commons
- image: [Earth GIF](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Rotating_earth_(large).gif) from Wikimedia Commons
- paragraph: [Here's to the Crazy Ones](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Think_Different#Text)
- paragraph: [Alice in Wonderland](http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/11)
- audio mp3: [Annual New England Xylophone Symposium](http://ccmixter.org/files/DoKashiteru/19848)
- fonts: [Raleway](https://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/raleway) and [Orbitron](https://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/orbitron)
- background graph paper: [Subtle Patterns Graphy](http://subtlepatterns.com/graphy/) was used to see the changes in element positions after transition/transform, etc
- [jQuery](http://jquery.com/) and jQuery library [FittextJS](http://fittextjs.com/)
- social icons: [crystal clear bubble](http://webtreats.mysitemyway.com/154-crystal-clear-bubble-social-media-icons/)

##license

[Public domain dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) - You can copy, modify, distribute and perform the work, even for commercial purposes, all without asking permission.

Commit message:

added suggested steps for instructors and post class

readme.md, after:

#intro to html & css

List of starting and completed exercises for any beginners getting into html, css and simple javascript. These exercises are designed to be taught in small groups accompanied by an instructor for guidance and discussion.

The lesson numbers are in the seqeuntial order of difficulty and builds on the knowledge of previous lessons.

##suggested tools

1. plain text editor e.g. [Sublime Text](http://www.sublimetext.com/3)
1. browser e.g. [Chrome](https://www.google.com/intl/en/chrome/browser/) with [DevTools](https://developers.google.com/chrome-developer-tools/)

##lessons

1. **text** tags such as `h1`, `h2`, `h3`, `h4`, `h5`, `h6`, `p`, `code`, `blockquote`, `span`
1. text **formatting and lines** with tags `em`, `hr`, `br`, `strong`
1. **image** tag `img` with attributes `height`, `width`, `title`, `alt` with relative/absolute url
1. **hyperlink** tag `a` with attributes `href`, `name` with relative/absolute hyperlinks
1. **list** tag `ul`,`ol` and `li` with ordered/unordered and nested list
1. **table** tag `table` with `tr`, `td` and attributes such as `cellpadding`, `cellspacing`, `colspan`, `rowspan`, `border`
1. **form** tags `form` with `input`, `label`, `select`, `option`, `textarea` and attributes such as `name`, `type`, `value`
1. linking **css and js** code and files with `link`, `style`, `script`
1. **css text** properties such as `font-family`, `font-size`, `color`, `font-style`, `font-weight`, `text-align`, `background-color`, `line-height`, `word-spacing`, `letter-spacing` and `font` (shorthand)
1. **css hyperlinks** with properties such as `text-decoration` for tags and pseudo classes `:link`, `:visited`, `:hover` and `:active`
1. **css background** with properties such as `background-color`, `background-image`, `background-attachment`, `background-position`, `background-repeat` and shorthand `background`
1. **css border** with properties `border` (shorthand), `border-width`, `border-style`, `border-color`, `border-left`, `border-right`, etc
1. **css form** by styling `textarea:focus`, `input[type=text]`, etc
1. **css selectors** such as `* {}`, `E {}`, `E F {}`, `E > F {}`
1. **css for id & class**
1. **css box model**
1. **css page layout**
1. **css position** with absolute, fixed and relative
1. **semantic tags** such as `header`, `footer`, `article`
1. **audio**
1. **video**
1. **web font** using [Google web fonts](https://www.google.com/fonts)
1. **embed fonts** using simple css syntax
1. **embed fonts** using more font formats to support different browsers
1. **vendor prefixes** for IE, Opera, Chrome, Safari
1. **border radius** to vary the amount, position of the curvature
1. **text shadow** with single or multiple shadows to vary the color, depth and position
1. **box shadow** with single or multiple shadows to vary the color, depth and position
1. **text selection** to change the text color and/or background when selecting text
1. **gradients** for linear gradient with stops and radial gradient
1. **transform** for translate, scale, rotate, skew
1. **transition** with `webkit-transition-property`, `-webkit-transition-duration`, `-webkit-transition-timing-function`, `-webkit-transition-deplay`
1. **animation** with `@keyframes`, `-webkit-animation-name`, `-webkit-animation-duration`, `-webkit-animation-iteration-count`, `-webkit-animation-timing-function`, `-webkit-animation-delay`, `-webkit-animation-direction`
1. **css3 selectors** with `nth-child` and `nth-of-type`
1. **media queries** for responsive design
1. **html5 forms** with input type as email, url, number, tel as well as attributes like require, min, max
1. **css3 reflection** with `box-reflect` 
1. **simple jquery integration** with [FittextJS](http://fittextjs.com/)
1. **css sprite** to load only one image instead of many images

##suggested timing

- lesson 1 - 4 [4 hours]
- lesson 5 - 8 [4 hours]
- lesson 9 - 12 [4 hours]
- lesson 13 - 18 [4 hours]
- lesson 19 - 24 [4 hours]
- lesson 25 - 29 [4 hours]
- lesson 30 - 33 [4 hours]
- lesson 34 - 38 [4 hours]

##suggested steps for instructors

1. take one lesson at a time
1. explain the theory with links to [W3C](http://www.w3.org/) or [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/)
1. show examples with the links listed in each lesson under **Resources** at the bottom of each `*.html` file as an inspiration
1. live code as a demo taking from **start** to **complete** code examples
1. walk around to assist the class participants when they also try to implement the steps from **start** to **complete**

##suggested steps for participants post-class

When things don't work, following these steps sequentally in this order: 

1. inspect element in the browser dev tools
1. if step 1 does not work: 
	- re-check syntax with documentation in [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/) or [W3c](http://www.w3.org/)
	- get to the errors in text editor / browser dev tools
	- check all file paths 
	- check all relevant versions of the library used (if any)
1. if step 2 does not work, google the question (set search option to "Past Year")
1. if step 3 does not work, make a module of the error code in [JSfiddle](http://jsfiddle.net/) with only the code needed (remove other feature code)
1. if step 4 does not work, post question in [stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/) with JSfiddle link in step 4 and complete error messages
1. if step 5 does not work, email someone with the links to the stackoverflow and jsfiddle
1. if step 6 does not work, request someone to pair with you on the error 

Suggested reading: [How to ask questions the Smart Way](http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html#asking) and [SSCCE](http://www.sscce.org/)

##general resources

1. [W3C](http://www.w3.org/)
1. [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/)
1. [web platform](http://www.webplatform.org/)

##credits

- image: [Internet PNG](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Internet_map_1024_-_transparent.png) from Wikimedia Commons
- image: [Earth GIF](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Rotating_earth_(large).gif) from Wikimedia Commons
- paragraph: [Here's to the Crazy Ones](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Think_Different#Text)
- paragraph: [Alice in Wonderland](http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/11)
- audio mp3: [Annual New England Xylophone Symposium](http://ccmixter.org/files/DoKashiteru/19848)
- fonts: [Raleway](https://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/raleway) and [Orbitron](https://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/orbitron)
- background graph paper: [Subtle Patterns Graphy](http://subtlepatterns.com/graphy/) was used to see the changes in element positions after transition/transform, etc
- [jQuery](http://jquery.com/) and jQuery library [FittextJS](http://fittextjs.com/)
- social icons: [crystal clear bubble](http://webtreats.mysitemyway.com/154-crystal-clear-bubble-social-media-icons/)

##license

[Public domain dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) - You can copy, modify, distribute and perform the work, even for commercial purposes, all without asking permission.
